as a joy to be with you this morning.
Let me ask if you would open your bibles to the Book of Romans.
Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans.
And if you will, just kind of hold your finger there for a couple minutes.
Before I launch into this, I just got to say, just thank you to Philip, to Laura, and to all the folks who led us in worship this morning.
Can you guys just say thank you to those folks?
Just come back.
So last several weeks, we've been talking about this series called Focus, which is a way for us, all as members of Concord to focus on the things that are vital to us as we move into a new season of our ministry.
And just a quick update before we launch into today's message, which is the final message in this series.
You know, first of these weeks, several weeks, a couple weeks ago, we were talking about the importance of focusing on our mission.
And so we talked about that passage in Hebrews chapter 12, the first couple of verses.
Therefore, since we have so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, let us also lay aside every weight in the sin that so easily entangles us and let us run with endurance or patience, the race that is set before us, that race that God gives to every person, that God gives to every church, that race is about our mission.
And we can never forget it.
At Concord, it's the same mission, really, that any faithful church anywhere on the globe has.
And that is to make disciples, to make disciples everywhere.
And so last week as a second in that series, we said, it's not just about focusing right now on our mission, we also need to focus on ourselves.
So like Paul said to Timothy, pay close attention to yourself.
And we talked about the fact that
You know, for all of us, if we're going to make disciples everywhere, then we can't ever get very far away from the importance of being disciples.
The word disciple means to be a learner, and it implies that we are constantly learning from Jesus, being transformed by Jesus.
This is not just something at becoming a Christian, it's not just a one-time thing that we achieve the minimal entry requirements for heaven, and that's where it stops.
I mean, this is a lifestyle.
And when we are people who are being constantly transformed by Jesus, there is a powerful impact from that.
Our neighbors see it, our coworkers see it.
It's hard to explain away.
So we need to focus in these days on our mission.
We need to focus.
I need to focus on myself.
Now this morning, the third in this series, I think we also need to focus on our message.
And the passage or the text that I want to start with this morning is from the Book of Romans.
You're holding your finger there.
The first chapter, the 16th verse where the Bible says, Paul says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel for it's the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes to the Jew first and also to the Greek.
Now, I want to talk to you this morning about the gospel.
That's our message.
That's the message of the Christian church all over the world.
And you may say, JoJo, why in the world are you gonna talk to us about our message, or about the gospel?
I mean, we have heard the gospel for the last nine years every Sunday.
We know the gospel.
I mean, maybe you're thinking that.
But first, let me just say this.
Can I just say praise God that we have heard the gospel every Sunday for the last nine years?
There are places, lots of churches in this world where you can go a lifetime and not hear the gospel.
We've heard the gospel
every Sunday for the last nine years.
We've all been blessed by it.
But there's several reasons I still think that we need to stop and focus, pay attention to, listen to the gospel, to focus on our message.
Now part of that is because you never get any part of life.
You never get very far away from the fundamentals or you shouldn't.
I mean, I looked at the calendar this week and
confirmed that it is 10 Saturdays from now that college football will start.
And so all of the women in the room are rolling their eyes in early, and all the guys are doing cartwheels inwardly.
But between now and then, all these coaches all over America, now it's even earlier, high school, and all these coaches all over America are getting their teams together, you know, they're beginning to talk about what they need to get ready for, and I'm just gonna guarantee you that every coach, every coach in America is gonna
in his first practices, he is gonna go back to the fundamentals.
He's gonna talk about it.
Well, here's how you block.
Here's how you tackle.
And somebody, somewhere I do that old Vince Lombardi speech, he'll hold up the football, he'll say, this is a football because people can never get very far away from the basics.
Now, another reason I think we ought to talk about the message, our message, focus on our message is because
Increasingly in our world, there is some opposition to sharing the gospel.
We all know this.
Now, I saw a statistic this past week from the new head of evangelism for the Georgia Baptist Mission Board, a guy named Levi Skipper said 47% of Christian millennials today believe it's wrong to share the gospel.
I don't know.
I haven't studied that statistic.
I don't know all of their reasons.
I would guess it has something to do with what's going on in our world and the fact that in our world today, that whether it's because of political correctness or postmodernism or whatever it is, in our world today, the very idea that you would challenge somebody else's worldview instead of affirming it, which brings a level of offense is just out of bounds.
So I suppose it has something to do with that.
It may be a great reason for us to go back.
and focus on our message, the gospel.
But I need to tell you this morning that the primary reason that I want to talk about our message, the gospel, is more personal than either of those things.
It's because in my life, I read this text where Paul says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel and I've just got to say with all honesty, I've never been ashamed of the gospel.
But in my life, there have been seasons and times when I have
been less than impressed with the gospel.
I hope you're better than that, but it's a truth.
In my life, there have been seasons and times when the good news has to me seemed like old news.
Maybe because I've been a Christian most of my life now, a long time, and anything that you
relate to for a long time, you know, like a marriage.
Sometimes you can begin to take for granted.
And I think from time to time, I've been guilty of doing that with the gospel.
I hope you haven't, but I see a lot of Christians and speak to a lot of Christians who this is a challenge for them.
And so this morning, if it's a challenge for you, if for some reason you've lost touch with the reality of how awesome the gospel is, and we all do sometimes, then I want to reconnect
for you, the wonder of what our message actually is.
And if there's somebody in the room this morning and I would guess there may be, who even though you've been here maybe for nine years and you've heard the gospel spoken, you know the truth about this is that you can hear the gospel spoken and spoken well and it has been spoken well here.
But there is something that is not human about this event when a person actually
hears for the first time.
There is something that only God controls when the scales fall off of someone's eyes, and even though you've heard the words so many times before, today can be your day when you hear the gospel for the first time.
My prayer is today can be your day.
So let's launch into this, how we focus on our message.
And I want to do that by beginning with a couple of questions.
And the first one is the gospel.
I mean, the central Christian message and our message here at Concord is the gospel just a command for me to behave myself.
Now, you may laugh, but listen, I mean, when I was a kid growing up at home, my mom, my dad, they had this look.
You don't have a mom and dad like this, you know.
Yeah, this looks like when I was misbehaving in church or I was misbehaving someplace in a public setting, I mean, my mom and dad had this look and they didn't require words.
They could just, you know, just give me this look like that.
And it was like some people call this the stink eye, but it's like, you know, you all know what I'm talking about.
You all know what that look means.
You don't have to have words.
That look means JoJo, behave yourself.
Now mom and dad had that look.
My teachers at school had that look.
I could be doing something, thinking they're not even paying attention, and then they're looking over those glasses, you know, and they're looking at me like that.
It says, JoJo, behave yourself.
And then I go to church and the preachers that we had.
Now they didn't have a look.
And for goodness sake, they certainly didn't accomplish this with no words.
They had lots of words.
But the preachers that we had, they were always saying the same thing.
It was like they were telling me to say, you know, don't lie, don't cheat, don't steal.
You know, don't have sex outside marriage, don't do drugs.
And it's like, to me, it was like every Sunday, it was just a different version of the same message, JoJo, behave yourself.
Now, I'm not here today to say that, you know, if you're a young person today, don't go home and say, that preacher said, I don't have to behave myself.
That's not the point.
We can all take a look at the news or people we know and find somebody who did not control their lust or did not control their greed or didn't control their selfishness and it's ruined their lives.
Listen, the Bible says, many are the sorrows of the wicked.
That's the case, but I'm not here to say we shouldn't behave ourselves.
I'm just here to say this morning that that is not the central message of the Christian church and certainly that is not the gospel.
Listen, I have to say that because there are a lot of people like me who have come to church week after week and somehow it's gotten lodged in their brain that this is what it's all about.
And I just need to say, if you went to school to learn how to be wrong, you couldn't have been more wrong.
That's absolutely wrong.
The gospel is not a command to behave yourself.
I need to say this because there are so many people who believe that God loves people
if they behave themselves.
And there are lots of people who believe that heaven is a reward for people who behave themselves.
That's absolutely wrong and it certainly is not the gospel.
Listen, the gospel is not just a command to behave yourself.
And I need to ask this question as well.
Is the gospel just good advice?
I mean, as it regards the issue of eternity, is that the gospel?
I'm good advice like don't end up in hell.
That would be good advice.
You know, if I'm driving down the road someplace and I see a sign that warns me, says, bridge out or dead end or something like that, that's good advice.
I mean, something I should pay attention to.
I don't want to just go, you know,
off the edge of some bridge that's out and end up in the river.
I mean, that's good advice, but is that good news?
I mean, the word gospel means good news.
And listen, preachers give, as it regards eternity, preachers give good advice.
I'll say great advice all the time, and they should, and we should listen to it.
Because there are important things that stick.
I mean, the analogy I use is if you go out here in the yard today and there's a flower out there, some little flower that draws its life from the sun, like all things on the planet, it draws its sustenance, it draws its energy from the sun.
And so here's this little flower who decides on a particular day, you know what, that's just not my opinion.
That is too narrow and confining for me.
That's not what I believe anymore.
And so this little flower decides to pull a piece of cardboard over its head and it's, I am no longer going to receive any sustenance from the sun.
I'm going to cut myself off from that source because I don't need that anymore.
What's going to happen to that flower?
I mean, it may not be today, it may not be tomorrow, but you know,
At some point, not very long, his preference won't matter, its belief won't matter, its sincerity won't matter, reality will matter.
You know, in the scripture, John, the first chapter, there's a passage where the writer, the apostle John says, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
The same was in the beginning with God.
All things were made by him.
And apart from him was not anything made that was made in him was life.
In him was life.
Now, you read that text and you may read over it quickly and think, well, okay, I get it, but no, listen, stop and think.
This is not saying that Jesus, it's not just saying that Jesus was alive.
Of course he was alive.
What John is saying is that life is in him.
What John is saying is that like for that little flower that draws its sustenance from the sun, Jesus is like some great son that sits at the center of all things.
That he is the source of life.
It's saying that all life emanates from him and only from him.
So when I, like that little flower decide, I'm gonna sever myself or cut myself off from him.
There is nothing good that can come from that.
Now should we heed that advice, absolutely we should heed that advice.
But I just need to say again, we're talking here about the gospel.
The word gospel means good news.
This may be the backdrop to the gospel.
This may be, while there's such a huge urgency about the gospel, but in and of itself, good advice is not good news.
The gospel means good news.
So what is the gospel?
What is this good news?
I'm gonna talk this morning about just a few simple things that I think sometimes that we as believers forget, and I think many times people who are not yet believers
think they've heard the gospel but have not yet heard.
I'm going to have about three quick things.
One is the gospel is good news.
It's something that's true about God.
It's also something that's true about what God has done.
And it's something that's true about my future.
Those are the three things we're going to touch on this morning for just a few minutes.
And so the first one, when we say something that's true about God, the gospel, the good news, our message to the world,
is that God is amazingly good.
You know, billions of people in the world today, billions, I don't need to name the religion, billions of people worship a God, at least a concept of God.
And their idea of him is that he is like the ultimate scorekeeper.
I mean, he is, he is aloof.
He's remote.
He's cold.
He takes no initiative to reach out to me.
He's the ultimate score keeper.
Is that what God is like?
You know, if I turn on the TV today or watch anything that's produced by just our culture, very often the picture that is portrayed of God is a picture of someone who wants to subtract from my life.
It's someone that if I follow his dictates and his rules that it's going to minimize my potential in my future, the things that I might take part in and things that I might enjoy.
And I just need to ask, is that?
Is God just the ultimate killjoy?
Is that what God is like?
You know, in the New Testament world, when Jesus spoke
to the people around him, they had hundreds of gods, ideas about God.
And if you studied Greek and Roman culture, you know with your mythology, you know that the ideas of the gods, they might have worshiped at Ephesus or different places in the New Testament.
You see, you mentioned these are gods are more like soap opera characters than they are the real God.
I mean, they are indifferent to human beings.
They're selfish, they're petty.
And I just need to say this morning that the picture of God that Jesus gave the world was 180 degrees different from these things, all these things.
If you want to this morning with me, open your Bible to the gospel of Luke in the 15th chapter to what is a very familiar passage, probably to many of us this morning, the story we call the prodigal son.
This is Jesus' picture of God.
And you know the story, how the Bible says a certain man had two sons.
Verse 11, the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the share of the estate that falls to me.
And so he divided his wealth between them.
So I like to say that this younger son says, Dad, I know you're not dead, but let's pretend that you are.
And so you give me what's coming to me and you know the story that he took
this inheritance and he went off to a far country because he had been planning this for a long time.
And he went down and he, the Bible says he squandered it with something called loose living.
We don't need to go into details.
And it wasn't very long before a famine arose in that land and he began to be in need.
So much so that he began to be desperate.
And the scripture says, Jesus tells the story that at some particular point, he came to, verse 17, I think it is, he says, he came to his senses.
And he begins to imagine, thinking his mind, he says, you know, really, even the slaves in my father's house have at least something to eat.
And he begins to fashion in his head a little speech that he could give to his dad if he were to go back.
Father, I'm no longer worthy to be called your son.
Make me as one of your hired servants.
begins the way back.
I don't know exactly how this happened.
I just know enough about dads and moms and kids to know that this is something that this dad has been hoping for for how long the boy's been gone.
And I just imagine him sitting on the front porch and seeing a little cloud of dust and some person making his way up the road a long way off and, you know, parents can tell their kid.
long before they ever see the face.
And so this guy leaps off the porch, and he sprints down to where this boy is, and the boy starts into his speech, father, I'm no longer worthy, and the father says, shut up.
He says, go, get the best robe and put it on him.
Bring sandals for his feet, put a ring on his finger, kill the fatted calf, because this boy of mine is
He was dead as alive again, and so it's time to celebrate.
Do you understand that when Jesus told that story, the Father in that story, He's giving us a picture of God?
And the picture of God that He gives us is not a picture of a God who is only concerned about behavior.
I mean, if any
kid has ever scored a zero on the behavior self scale.
This boy scored a zero.
But this is a picture of a God who is not just concerned about my behavior, he's concerned about me.
And it's a picture of a God who does not desire to bless only those who deserve it.
As I said, this boy does not deserve it.
It's a picture of a God who desires to bless even those who deserve the opposite.
Praise God.
He's not just concerned for my behavior.
He's concerned for me.
He doesn't just desire to bless me if I deserve it.
He desires to bless me when I deserve the opposite.
It's a picture of a God who's not just real.
He's not just powerful.
some versions of God.
He's not just wise.
He's not just holy.
He's all those things.
He's real.
He's powerful.
He's wise.
He's holy.
He's good.
He's amazingly good.
This is what Jesus is saying to us.
And it's a part of the good news that Jesus gave the world.
And it fell upon the world like a thunderclap in contrast to everything they'd heard before, understood before.
that the one who sits at the center of all things is not indifferent to me.
The one who sits at the center of all things is not only concerned with whether I deserve something, but the one who sits at the center of all things is not just real, not just wise, not just powerful, not just holy, not even just good.
He is off the chain, good.
He is beyond words, good.
He is amazingly good.
This is part of the good news.
It's not all of it.
It's just part of the good news that is our privilege to give the world.
Every day, every week.
And it's just the beginning.
It's like I said, we're gonna talk about three things today.
And the first one is the good news is something true about God that God is amazingly good.
Beyond description, good.
And because He's amazingly good, the Bible also says,
The good news is about something God has done out of his goodness as a result of his goodness.
You know, when I was a pastor, I had a, I was a guy in our church, his name was Cliff.
Cliff went to the, to the doctor when Cliff had cancer and he went to the doctor one time and as he did, he had told so many people in the church, a bunch of us, you know, that he was going to get news on this particular day.
So we were all waiting and he was going to send out an email to all most of the church really.
So at a particular moment, I turned around and on my screen on my computer, the email popped up.
And I don't know how he did this, but he made it in a font that was so big that there was not room for anything else on the screen.
The font took up the entire screen.
And it's just three words.
Praise the Lord.
Because Cliff had gone to the doctor and heard the most beautiful words in the English language.
Cancer-free.
I mean, for Cliff, it was not about going to the doctor and trying to keep from getting sick.
The reason those words were so beautiful to him.
It wasn't about trying to keep from getting sick.
They were beautiful because he already was sick.
And it was like there was some thing in his body that it was like a freight train that already left the station.
And unless somebody could stop that freight train that it was going to take him out, he knew this.
He needed something to stop that freight train.
It's like some judgment that was already working its way through his cells and through his body.
He needed somebody to stop this, to vaporize this, to obliterate this.
And he heard those words cancer-free.
And it was the best news he could imagine.
You know, for all of us,
The issue is not cancer.
The Bible says the issue is something called sin.
It's not a physical reality.
It's a, it's deeper than that.
It's that part of me that says that even though, even though God gives me every heartbeat, God gives me every breath, it makes sense to me that I would shove him to the edges of my life and treat him as absolutely irrelevant.
That makes sense to me.
Sin is that part of me that says that even though God is the maker of all things and my maker, that I will take that place as the center of the universe, everything needs to revolve around me.
God himself should serve me.
I get angry at God when he does not serve me.
This makes sense to me because of something called sin.
It's rebellion.
It lives in every one of us and the Bible sits.
There is a judgment associated with it like a freight train that's already left the station.
And every one of our lives.
So what Paul says when he says in Romans 623, the wage is the consequences of sin is death.
But listen, this God who is so amazingly good, this God who has no obligation to even pay attention to me.
And what am I?
some tiny infinitesimal speck in a whole but universal.
Why is he to even pay attention to me?
But this God chooses not only to pay attention to me, the Bible says in Romans the 5th chapter and the 8th verse.
But God demonstrates his own love for us in that while we were yet sinners Christ died for us.
He is not indifferent to me.
The Bible says that this amazingly good God
He doesn't just pay attention to me.
He steps into my place and he receives in the person of his son the judgment that I so richly deserve, which is why in Romans the eighth chapter, the first verse, Paul says, therefore now there is no condemnation.
Listen to those words.
This condemnation that I deserve absolutely, God has vaporized it.
He's obliterated.
There is now no condemnation, no hint, no whiff, no bathtub ring.
It's like it's gone.
Do you remember what it was like when you were in school and how you got an assignment from a teacher that you had six weeks to do this project you're supposed to do for science or whatever it is and you hadn't done
Nothing.
Maybe you're better than me.
Maybe you never did this, but I do.
You know what it's like to lay down at night and close your eyes and you've got an assignment like that.
Do the next morning you hadn't done nothing and you say it is like judgment is coming tomorrow and I deserve it.
You close your eyes with a sense of impending doom over you and you open your eyes the next morning as a funny glow in the room.
And you rub your eyes and walk over to the window and there's six inches of snow on the ground.
It's like hallelujah.
I'm saved.
You all know that feeling?
You ever been there?
Well, look, this is not just for a day, that sense of judgment being obliterated and vaporized and gone forever.
It's not just for a day.
It's forever and ever and ever and ever.
Praise God for that.
Is that good news?
Listen, why would you not say yes to that?
Why would you not?
Listen, the gospel that our message is not just good advice, it's not just a command to behave yourself.
This is the best news the planet has ever heard.
That God is not just good, He's amazingly good.
And that out of that goodness that God has chosen, not just to pay attention to me,
But to stand in my place and take my judgment and evaporate and obliterate forever the judgment that I deserve so rich.
But this is not all of it.
The good news is also.
The good news is also just one other thing.
And that's a truth about my future and your future.
Listen, when I think about this, I think about
This passage will touch in just a second.
I think about my dad who, dad's been gone about three years, died in 2015.
And the last years of my dad's life were just no fun.
Some of you have older parents, you know exactly what I'm talking about.
Mom passed away in 2006 and my dad never got over that.
And his life,
for the last few years was just a series of losses.
Now, this is a guy who, I mean, he loved to be outdoors.
And he loved to work in his garden.
He loved to hunt.
He loved to fish.
I mean, his whole career, he was outdoors.
And the last thing he wanted to do in life was to watch television.
But it was like there was a series of losses that became unavoidable.
Like some, you know, it's like a drip drip.
And the truth is, this is going to happen for all of us, unless you die prematurely because it's a nature of the world we live in.
So this drip drip drip that for him started out with my mom's loss and maybe the loss of a friend here or there, but that drip then became a stream.
And that stream became a creek, and that creek finally became a river that was just impossible to cross.
And he lost my mom, and he lost his friends, and he lost his health, and his life was finally compressed into just one chair in this one room where he watched TV all day, every day.
I mean, the world took everything.
Do you realize that that is the future most of your friends and coworkers have to face?
But it's not the future that you have or that I have.
Peter writes here, he says, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who according to his great mercy has caused us to be born again to a living hope.
through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to obtain an inheritance.
Look at these words.
See, because everything in this world, not just my dad's life, your life, everything you hold precious, everything is perishable.
The world will ultimately take it.
Everything will one day become defiled.
Everything will one day
fade away.
But as Peter talks about our future, our inheritance, he says, there is a completely different class of reality here.
There are things which are not perishable because they're not from this world.
They are imperishable and they are undefined and they will never fade away.
I mean, I love this quote, Tim Keller is a preacher in New York City and he has a quote
On this subject, he says, if Jesus Christ was really raised from the dead and you believe in him, then all those things you long for, most desperately, are real and will come true.
We will escape time and death.
We will know love without party.
Listen, for a child of God, the truth is that, yes,
while the rest of the world, their backdrop is a cascading loss that finally takes everything from them.
They might not like even to think about it.
They don't want you to bring it up, maybe, but it's still true.
But for you and for me, there will never be a moment.
It doesn't matter what the world takes from you.
It may take your friends.
It may take your health.
It may take your memories.
But there will never be a nanosecond, a moment for you when the best is not yet to come.
Is that good news?
Do you know anybody in this world that doesn't need to hear and want to hear that news?
Listen, folks.
The most loving thing you can do in all the world with any person is to tell them the good news.
Their lives are being lived against a backdrop that people, we don't even like to think about.
You can give them hope.
If you're here this morning, today is a day, I don't know what you thought before was a central message of the Christian church.
Maybe you thought it was just behave yourself.
But today is your day.
You can embrace the hope that God has for you.
Today is your day.
You can embrace the forgiveness that God has made possible for you.
You can embrace this God who is not just real or wise or powerful.
not even just good, but amazingly good.
And who has invited you to be his son or his daughter?
Now then maybe somebody, maybe you've been a believer a long time.
Maybe there's somebody you've been, I just haven't, I just can't get up the courage to speak to them about, look, do you love them?
Do you love them?
This is the best news our planet has ever heard.
God's not just good, he is amazingly good.
And that he has canceled the judgment that I deserve, he has canceled it forever.
And that for me, or for the person that you love, they will never be a moment.
If they know Jesus as their savior, they will never be a moment when the best is not yet to come.
You can give them that.
Let me ask you to bow your heads and close your eyes.
In just a minute, I'm going to invite you to come.
And if you're here this morning and today is the first day, and I know you've heard the words many times, but maybe today is the day that God has taken the scales off your eyes and you say, you know what, I need to embrace that, that hope, that forgiveness, that Savior.
Or if you need to come this morning and just to kneel and pray for somebody that you love that needs to hear the gospel, ask God for that opportunity to share it, you come.
Father, thank you for the truth of the gospel.
Thank you for the privilege that we have of being your messengers and of loving the people around us enough to give them the best news this world has ever heard.
Help us never, never, never to forget how awesome
The gospel is, we pray in Jesus' name, amen.
Let's all stand together.
You come as God leads you this morning.